in the occupied West Bank Israeli forces
are carrying out more raids they stormed
pass of Janine nablas and heon on Sunday
morning several Palestinian houses were
destroyed Israel has stepped up
overnight raids on the territory since
October the 7th meanwhile Israeli forces
have killed three Palestinians in the
town of Abu in the occupied West Bank
they stormed the house of a resident
they say was a suspected fighter muhamad
Jam jum is joining us now live from rala
just bring us the latest on these
overnight raids Muhammad
so Rob as you mentioned uh it's very
much come to be expected that there are
multiple raids uh increased and
intensification of these raids across
the occupied West Bank in the overnight
hours and that's what we witnessed uh
this past overnight into the morning as
well let me tell you about the most
intense of those raids which you just
mentioned a moment ago that happened in
the town of Abu which is close to
occupied East Jerusalem the Israeli
military entered Abu around 2:15 a.m.
local time they first clashed with
Palestinians in the area they then
surrounded the house of Nabil halia who
the Israeli military had said was
suspected of being a fighter now what
the Israeli military did thereafter it's
what's being called a pressure cooker
technique that's used in the occupied
West Bank essentially first they called
for na Haria to hand himself over there
was a standoff that lasted several hours
NAIA did not surrender there were
different weapons that were used there
was increased intensity in the usage of
those weapons um at one point observers
say that the Israeli Army fired an
anti-tank missile towards the house they
then bulldozed the house of of halia uh
and he was killed in that house there
were also as you mentioned two other
Palestinians killed when confrontations
happened in the area between
Palestinians and the Israeli Army now
beyond that there were also raids that
happened in taram and naus um there was
also one in a small village called nuba
which is Northwest of Northwest of
Hebron but another intense raid happened
in Janine which has really become a
flash point uh when it comes to all of
these raids that happened in the
overnight hours the Israeli military not
only entered the city they also entered
the refugee camp in Janine and we're
told that armored vehicles and armored
bulldozers were used to tear up
infrastructure and roads in that area
Rob uh Muhammad I understand also of
course that US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin who's been doing this
diplomatic tour of the region is going
to be traveling to rala to meet the
Palestinian
president that's right Rob we're told
that secretary blinkin is scheduled to
start that meeting in the next hour with
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas now
it's a big question as to what exactly
can be achieved with this meeting
secretary blinken's um trip to the
region has really not yielded any
diplomatic results thus far uh you saw
his meetings with Arab foreign ministers
yesterday that was featured in Allen's
report just a few moments ago really
didn't end with any kind of of Concrete
Solutions to the conflict in Gaza now
obviously what's going on in Gaza is
going to be on the top of the agenda
when it comes to what blinkin discusses
with Abbas um what's going to be
interesting is to see whether or not the
Americans float the idea that they have
floated publicly in the past few days of
perhaps the Palestinian Authority taking
over governance of Gaza and ultimately
having the responsibility the security
responsibility for Gaza that's something
that blinkin mentioned publicly for the
first time
in the US Congress just a few days ago
um it'll be interesting to see if he
broaches that subject with Abbas because
thus far the Palestinian Authority has
said no to that proposal what they've
said is the Palestinian prime minister
has said that that cannot happen without
any kind of comprehensive agreement that
would include the West Bank being
included in a Palestinian State they
want to see solutions for the occupied
West Bank and when it comes to the
occupied West Bank there is increased
worry not just by the us but also by the
UN because of the increase in violence
in the occupied West Bank the increase
in the intensity of the raids by the
Israeli Army uh and the demolitions of
Palestinian homes there's so much
concern about that right now we must
remember that uh 2023 has been the
deadliest year thus far for Palestinians
across the occupied West Bank more than
150 Palestinians killed thus
far uh and and to that end uh people are
very worried that the situation in the
occupied West Bank is only going to get
worse Rob Mohammad thank you very much
Muhammad jamun bringing us up to date
from romala